Aoi, you’re thinking of releasing your original illustrations.
How do you want users to use the illustrations?
If users like my illustrations, they can use them.
But I don’t want users to sell my illustrations
without my permission.
At first, Aoi considered releasing the illustrations under
a Creative Commons license.
Yes, that’s right.
I thought it would be better to use a well-known license.
Let’s take a closer look at the Creative Commons license first.
A Creative Commons license is sometimes called a CC license
because of its long name.
First, the license that Aoi had proposed for free use would be
a license called CC-BY.
This is a license that allows the users to use the works freely
provided they give proper credit.
Credit is something you taught me before, such as the display of
the name under the attribution right and the work’s title.
That’s right. You remembered well.
In this case, Aoi, the copyright owner, will decide
how to display the credit and indicate,
“Please write the credit in this way.”
Yes, I see.
Again, this CC-BY license, which can be used freely,
means that you allow users modifications and commercial use.
I see.
What other licenses are available
under the Creative Commons license?
You can add NoDerivatives if you want to add to the condition
that users cannot modify the work.
Also, you can add a NonCommercial condition to the mark
if you wish to grant only non-commercial use.
For example,
adding NoDerivatives and NonCommercial conditions
would be a Creative Commons license called CC BY-NC-ND.
I see.
The Creative Commons license also has another condition
called ShareAlike, right?
I studied it before and found the idea of ShareAlike difficult
to understand.
Yes.
Share-Alike requires that you use the same CC license
as the original work.
For example, if the original work was licensed under a CC license
with NonCommercial and Share-Alike provisions,
the modified work would also be subject to CC BY-NC-SA.
In the case of ShareAlike, with the same combination of CC
licenses, users can alter or redistribute the work,
so there is no situation where ShareAlike and NoDerivatives
can be used simultaneously.
I see. It’s named “ShareAlike” because it always shares the
intent of the license of the original work.
Somehow, I’m thinking that it would be good to add
NonCommercial and ShareAlike conditions.
Aoi! Don’t be too hasty just yet.
I think the Creative Commons license is a good idea,
but by all means, it can only be used under certain conditions.
If you want to add conditions other than those shown here,
how can you do that?
I’ll answer that for you.
Under the Copyright Law,
there are provisions for the following license.
“Article 63(1): The copyright owner may grant another person
authorization to exploit the work.
Article 63(2): A person that obtains the authorization referred to
in the preceding paragraph is entitled to exploit the work to
which that authorization pertains within the scope of the manner
and conditions of exploitation under that authorization.
Article 63(3): A right of exploitation ... may not be transferred
without the consent of the copyright owner.”
In this way, we can grant a license to other users by specifying
the conditions and method of use.
That’s why sites that publish illustrations like Sashieyasan
have created a page called the “User Guide” to make it easier
for others.
Are you making it easier to use by making the terms of use
public? I’m not a fan of reading them.
No, no. I told you before to read the terms of use carefully.
You cannot use the illustrations if there is no “User Guide”
and you do not have a CC license mark.
You must always obtain a license to use it,
so you should contact the copyright owner at the site
if you want to use it.
This would make the barrier to use much higher.
Creating a page such as a “User Guide”
also promotes using illustrations.
I see.
If the CC mark does not meet the conditions, you will need to
create a page like a “User Guide”s.
However, CC BY-NC-SA is okay for this project,
so I want to go with it.
Yes! Just one question.
I have heard that it will be for commercial use
if you charge an admission fee.
If Aoi provided the illustrations under CC BY-NC-SA,
it would mean that users could not use them at events
that charge an admission fee, right?
That’s true.
However, the copyright owner can grant licenses individually,
so in such cases, please contact Aoi and apply for permission.
I see.
I figured it out for the most part. I want to think it over again
and decide on the terms of use.